Contact
House no. 568, Seuni Ali, A.T. Road,
Jorhat, Assam-785001
+917002048687 (Home)
harshitsnghl@gmail.com
www.linkedin.com/in/
harshitsinghal1999 (LinkedIn)
Harshit Singhal
Software Development Engineer | Building Scalable & Resilient
Systems | Bajaj Finserv Health | Ex-ADP
Pune, Maharashtra, India
Top Skills
Apache Kafka
Elastic Stack (ELK)
High-Level Design
Summary
As a lifelong problem-solver, I’ve always been drawn to the power
of technology to create elegant solutions. My journey as a Software
Development Engineer has taken me from developing mobile
apps with React Native to architecting complex, enterprise-scale
systems for industry leaders. Currently, I’m applying my skills as
a Software Engineer at Bajaj Finserv Health, where I’m excited to
tackle challenges in the dynamic health-tech landscape.
Certifications
Machine Learning using Python
Artificial Intelligence
Command Line Interface (CLI) With
Golang From Infosys
End to End Machine Learning with
TensorFlow on GCP
Storm Path Internal Hackathon
With a strong foundation in Java, Spring Boot, and cloud platforms
like AWS and GCP, I thrive on building scalable and efficient
applications. I have a deep understanding of the full product design
lifecycle and a passion for agile development. In my previous
role, I had the opportunity to lead a small team and mentor junior
developers, experiences that I found incredibly rewarding . Whether
I’m optimizing an API to cut response times by 40% or designing a
new system from the ground up, my goal is always to deliver value
and drive innovation .
Experience
Bajaj Finserv Health
Software Development Engineer
August 2025 - Present (6 months)
Pune, Maharashtra, India
• Contributing to the central Integration Layer, which is key to deliver a unified
digital healthcare experience. I focus on developing the infrastructure that
enables seamless interoperability between different health services, insurance
products, and patient-facing applications, ultimately creating a connected and
accessible health network for our users.
ADP
3 years 3 months
Page 1 of 3
Sr. Member Technical
September 2024 - August 2025 (1 year)
India
• Driving development of an enterprise-scale document processing system
using Java, Python and LLM’s, achieving 95% accuracy in automated data
extraction from diverse unstructured pdf documents.
• Engineered a scalable architecture that integrates Google Cloud Document
AI, MongoDB, and custom PDF processing libraries, reducing manual
document processing time and effort by more than 90%. Implemented Human-
in-the-Loop validation workflow for low-confidence predictions, improving
overall accuracy from 95% to 100%.
Member Technical
June 2022 - September 2024 (2 years 4 months)
Hyderabad, Telangana, India
• Architected and implemented an automated enrollment termination system
processing hundreds of monthly transactions, mitigating manual processing
effort in age-based terminations.
• Led a team in Critical Illness Plan enhancement project, delivering new
features with 80% test
coverage.
• Engineered multiple eligibility group support within single plans, reducing plan
maintenance overhead and simplifying practitioner journey for plan creation.
• Optimized RESTful APIs through lazy loading and chunk processing,
reducing response time by 40% and implemented server side rendering of AG
grids to improve client performance.
TechVariable
Programmer Analyst Trainee
January 2022 - June 2022 (6 months)
Guwahati, Assam, India
• Developed Quii mobile app using React Native and scalable backend
infrastructure using NodeJS and Firebase.
• Created a CLI automation tool reducing development setup time by 10%
across all React/React Native projects.
Indian Oil Corp Limited
Project Intern - Indian Oil Corporation Limited (IOCL),
July 2021 - August 2021 (2 months)
Guwahati, Assam, India
Page 2 of 3
• Designed and Implemented a Visitor Management System using Angular,
PHP, and MySQL.
• Automated the process of logging the attendance of employees and visitors.
Anna University
Project Intern - The COVID-19 National Bioinformatics
May 2020 - July 2020 (3 months)
India
Lead a full-stack web and android application project with testing and
automation and cloud deployment. Develop 13 modules for 36 states and UTs
while handling large amount of data.
Education
Kaziranga University
Bachelor of Technology - BTech, Computer Science · (2018 - 2022)
Maharishi Vidya Mandir Senior Secondary School
High Secondary, C.B.S.E · (2016 - 2018)
Maharishi Vidya Mandir Senior Secondary School
Matriculation, C.B.S.E · (2016)
Page 3 of 3

